

===== PAGE 1 =====
Learning while Deploying: Fleet-Scale
Reinforcement Learning for Generalist Robot
Policies
Yi Wang1,2 Xinchen Li 2 Pengwei Xie 2 Pu Yang2 Buqing Nie 2
Yunuo Cai1,2 Qinglin Zhang 2 Chendi Qu 2 Jeffrey Wu3 Jianheng Song 2
Xinlin Ren 2 Jingshun Huang 1,2 Mingjie Pan 1,2 Siyuan Feng 2 Zhi Chen 2 Jianlan Luo 1,2†
1Shanghai Innovation Institute. 2AGIBOT Finch. 3Columbia University.
https://finch.agibot.com/research/lwd
Abstract—Generalist robot policies increasingly benefit from
large-scale pretraining, but offline data alone is insufficient
for robust real-world deployment. Deployed robots encounter
distribution shifts, long-tail failures, task variations, and human
correction opportunities that fixed demonstration datasets cannot
fully capture. We presentLearning While Deploying(LWD),
a fleet-scale offline-to-online reinforcement learning framework
for continual post-training of generalist Vision-Language-Action
(VLA) policies. Starting from a pretrained VLA policy, LWD
closes the loop between deployment, shared physical experience,
policy improvement, and redeployment by using autonomous
rollouts and human interventions collected across a robot fleet. To
stabilize learning from heterogeneous, sparse-reward fleet data,
LWD combinesDistributional Implicit V alue Learning(DIVL) for
robust value estimation with Q-learning viaAdjoint Matching
(QAM) for policy extraction in flow-based VLA action generators.
We validate LWD on a fleet of 16 dual-arm robots across
eight real-world manipulation tasks, including semantic grocery
restocking and 3–5 minute long-horizon tasks. A single generalist
policy improves as fleet experience accumulates, reaching an
average success rate of 95%, with the largest gains on long-
horizon tasks.
I. INTRODUCTION
Deploying general-purpose robots in the real world requires
high-performance generalistpolicies: policies that can reliably
complete a broad range of tasks across diverse objects, envi-
ronments, user instructions, and operating conditions. Recent
Vision-Language-Action (VLA) policies [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6] pro-
vide a strong foundation by acquiring broad competence from
large offline robot datasets. However, offline pretraining alone
does not make a policy deployment-ready. Real-world deploy-
ment is not a fixed test distribution: as robots are used across
more homes, stores, workspaces, and users, they encounter
new tasks, object instances, configurations, preferences, and
rare failure modes beyond the coverage of pretraining data.
Obtaining high performance therefore requires policies that
continue to improve from deployment experience, so that
adaptation scales with the data generated by use.
This perspective recasts deployment from an endpoint of
training into a source of continual policy improvement. Real-
†Corresponding author.
Fig. 1:Learning While Deploying (LWD): Fleet-scale Re-
inforcement Learning for Generalist Robot Policies.A
pretrained Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model is first ini-
tialized withhuman-collectedoffline data. The data flywheel
then spins up. The model is deployed across diverse real-world
robot tasks andautonomouslycollects online interaction data.
This online data is mixed with the offline replay buffer to
update the model, which is then re-deployed for further data
collection.
izing this form of continual improvement requires deployment
experience that is both broad and continuously updated. For a
generalist robot policy, the most valuable deployment experi-
ence is naturally collected at fleet scale. Any individual robot
samples only a small portion of the deployed distribution,
whereas a fleet spans diverse tasks, environments, objects,
and user instructions, producing heterogeneous experience
that includes successes, failures, recoveries, partial progress,
rare edge cases, and occasional human interventions. Ag-
gregating this physical experience through a shared policy
creates a closed-loop data flywheel: deployed robots generate
experience on the target deployment distribution, the shared
arXiv:2605.00416v1  [cs.RO]  1 May 2026

===== PAGE 2 =====
policy improves from the aggregated data, and the improved
policy is redeployed to collect broader and more informative
experience.
We refer to this setting asLearning While Deploying
(LWD): continual policy improvement driven by the accumu-
lated real-world autonomous experience of a deployed robot
fleet. Turning this data flywheel into a learning algorithm,
however, requires a training objective that can improve from
the outcomes of autonomous interaction, rather than treat-
ing deployment data for pure imitation signal. Interactive
imitation-learning methods [7] can incorporate expert demon-
strations, corrections, and interventions during deployment, but
they treat deployment primarily as a source of action labels
for supervised learning. As a result, they use only part of
the available experience and lack a principled mechanism for
leveraging autonomous trials that contain successes, failures,
recoveries, partial progress, and task rewards. Reinforcement
Learning (RL) in principle provides such a mechanism by
optimizing policy behavior from task outcomes and policy
experience [8, 9, 10, 11]. Yet existing RL approaches for
robotics are often limited to small-scale, short-horizon, or task-
specific settings, and frequently specialize a pretrained gener-
alist policy to a narrow task [12, 13, 14]. A scalable method for
post-training end-to-end VLA policies from fleet deployment
experience while preserving their generality remains an open
problem.
Addressing this gap requires an RL algorithm for LWD that
is compatible with pretrained VLA policies, can learn from
large offline and off-policy datasets, and can adapt rapidly as
new deployment data streams in. These requirements stress
both components of an RL method. Value learning must
produce reliable estimates from heterogeneous off-policy data
with sparse rewards and rare high-return trajectories. Policy
extraction must turn the learned values into better actions from
a large generative VLA policy without destabilizing the model.
Prior work addresses these requirements only in part. Amin
et al. [15] combines offline value learning with iterative offline
RL, but the procedure is slow and does not directly use
action gradients from the learned value function. Luo et al.
[16, 17] show that online RL can learn challenging robotic
manipulation tasks within a short period through real-world
interaction, but train task-specific policies from scratch rather
than improve a pretrained generalist policy. On-policy VLA
finetuning methods [18, 19, 20, 21, 22] update pretrained
policies directly from online rollouts, but are not designed to
efficiently reuse large offline or off-policy deployment buffers.
They also do not learn an explicit action-value critic, and
therefore cannot use action-space critic gradients to guide
policy improvement. Together, these limitations motivate an
offline-to-online RL approach that can reuse heterogeneous
deployment data while stably improving a pretrained genera-
tive VLA policy.
We present Fleet-Scale Offline-to-Online RL, an offline-to-
online framework for post-training end-to-end VLA policies
in a large-scale real-world deployment system. The framework
couples two pieces: distributional value learning from offline
and autonomous deployment experience, and stable policy
extraction that transfers value improvement into a flow-based
VLA policy.
For value learning, we introduce Distributional Implicit
Value Learning (DIVL). DIVL builds on the value-learning
component of Implicit Q-Learning [23], but replaces scalar ex-
pectile value regression with a distributional value model. This
choice is important in the setting of fleet deployment: robots
collect data asynchronously under different policy versions,
across heterogeneous scenes, with sparse rewards, failures,
partial recoveries, and occasional human interventions. As a
result, the return associated with the same state-action pair
can be multi-modal and heavy-tailed. A scalar critic may
collapse these outcomes into an average value and obscure
rare but reproducible successes, whereas a distributional critic
can preserve these high-return modes. DIVL therefore learns
multi-step return distributions while retaining the in-support
policy improvement property of implicit value learning. This
yields a stable learning signal from large off-policy deploy-
ment buffers without requiring the policy to query out-of-
distribution actions.
For policy extraction, we adopt Q-learning with Adjoint
Matching (QAM) [24, 25]. The critic provides useful action
gradients, but backpropagating them through the full multi-
step denoising process of a flow policy is unstable and
expensive. QAM converts the critic gradient at the denoised
action into step-wise supervision for the flow model. This gives
a stable way to update the VLA policy from the learned value
function while preserving the expressivity of generative action
modeling.
The full system has two stages: offline pretraining on a
mixture of data from diverse sources, followed by rapid online
finetuning with deployment data. Both stages optimize the
same RL objective, which mitigates a common offline-to-
online mismatch: offline critics can become overly conserva-
tive and poorly calibrated for subsequent online finetuning,
while online improvement depends on extrapolating values
to newly visited actions [26]. We instantiate it on a fleet of
16 dual-arm robots across eight manipulation tasks. These
include long-horizon precision tasks, such as brewing Gongfu
tea, making cocktails, and making fruit juice, which typically
require 3–5 minute executions, as well as shorter-horizon tasks
that require semantic generalization, such as restocking diverse
items in grocery stores. A single generalist policy trained
with LWD improves as online fleet experience accumulates. It
substantially improves over the pretrained model, reaches an
average success rate of0.95across all tasks, and outperforms
relevant baselines by large margins. The performance gap is
especially pronounced on long-horizon tasks, where RL can
propagate rewards through multi-step dynamic programming
and stitch together value estimates across partial progress,
while imitation-learning methods suffer more severely from
compounding errors. This LWD procedure typically requires
only a few hours of real-world interaction.
Our main contribution is a fleet-scale offline-to-online RL
system for post-training generalist robot policies in real-world

===== PAGE 3 =====
deployment. Algorithmically, LWD combines distributional
implicit value learning with QAM-based policy extraction
and uses the same RL objective across offline pretraining
and online finetuning. Systemically, it enables a distributed
robot fleet to aggregate physical interaction experience and
autonomously improve a shared VLA policy. To the best
of our knowledge, LWD is among the first real-world RL
systems to close this offline-to-online improvement loop for
generalist robot policies. More broadly, it provides a concrete
step toward deploying general-purpose robots at scale: fleet-
scale deployment can itself become a source of training data,
creating a data flywheel in which deploying more robots
improves the shared policy and, in turn, future deployment.
II. RELATEDWORK
LWD is a post-training framework for generalist robot
policies, instantiated as a distributed large-scale RL system
deployed in real-world settings. Accordingly, we survey prior
work in the following areas.
A. Post-Training of Robot Generalist Policies
Robot generalist policies, including VLA models, acquire
broad capabilities through large-scale pre-training on diverse
multi-modal data [2, 3, 4, 6]. To adapt these policies to
downstream deployments, recent work has explored several
post-training strategies [27, 20, 12, 15, 28, 29]. One direction
studies offline post-training, where policies are improved using
previously collected rollouts [27, 15, 30].π ∗
0.6 combines
offline value learning with iterative offline RL, achieving
substantial gains on individual real-world tasks [15]. RLDG
uses specialist RL to generate data for policy distillation,
providing another way to incorporate RL supervision [30].
However, offline-only post-training follows a collect-train-
deploy cycle and cannot immediately incorporate experience
gathered during deployment, making adaptation to distribution
shifts slow [15, 30]. LWD instead updates the policy during
deployment, allowing newly collected experience to correct
such shifts quickly.
Another line of work performs post-training with online
RL, including VLA-RL [18] and RIPT [19], achieving strong
improvements for specialist policies in simulated tasks [31, 32,
33, 34, 20, 35, 36]. However, these methods typically rely on
on-policy data collection, which can be sample-inefficient and
costly for real-world robots [20, 37]. In contrast, LWD learns
from large offline datasets together with off-policy online
replay, improving the practicality of real-world post-training.
Recent methods also combine offline and online phases:
offline pretraining on rollout datasets followed by online re-
finement through real-time interactions [13, 14, 12]. However,
prior methods typically learn specialist policies tailored to
individual tasks, limiting generalization across diverse deploy-
ments [13, 12].
LWD is fundamentally different from these works: it per-
forms offline-to-online post-training for a generalist robot pol-
icy rather than learning task-specific specialists. This enables
scalable post-training of a single policy across multiple real-
world tasks, including long-horizon tasks with sparse rewards.
B. Offline-to-Online Reinforcement Learning
Offline-to-online RL pretrains on diverse offline data and
refines continuously through online interactions [38, 25, 39,
40, 12, 14, 30, 41, 42]. Luo et al. [16, 17] utilize a small
number of human demonstrations to seed policy learning
and then specialized a single robotic skill through real-world
interaction. However, LWD differs from this method in that
it post-trains a shared generalist VLA policy across multiple
tasks, combines offline and online replay in one learning
loop, and operates under distributed fleet-scale deployment.
Recent studies use different policy-extraction mechanisms to
reuse offline data during online improvement [25, 43, 44, 45].
Wagenmaker et al. [45] present DSRL, which adapts pretrained
diffusion policies via RL on latent-noise space for sample-
efficient online-to-offline improvement. Li and Levine [25]
introduce QAM, using critic gradients to improve flow-based
policies through adjoint matching, achieving stable training
from scratch in simulation. However, prior approaches have
not been validated for stable, fleet-scale post-training of gen-
eralist VLA policies. LWD addresses this and adopts QAM
to enable offline-to-online RL through large-scale real-world
deployments.
Recent robotic post-training methods incorporate offline-to-
online RL to improve policies [13, 12, 14, 30]. However, they
typically focus on task-specific policies with inconsistent train-
ing objectives across offline-to-online stages, and operate at
limited deployment scale. In contrast, LWD trains a generalist
policy across diverse tasks through fleet-scale offline-to-online
RL. It adopts a unified training method in offline and online
stages, enhancing training stability and scalability.
C. Large-Scale Robotic RL Systems
Large-scale robotic RL systems improve robot policies by
aggregating experience from distributed actors and training
centralized learners, enabling policy improvement beyond
what can be achieved with isolated task-level data collec-
tion [46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52]. Kalashnikov et al. [46, 47]
demonstrate that off-policy RL can be scaled from vision-
based grasping to multi-task manipulation through asyn-
chronous robot data collection and centralized Q-function
optimization. While these systems focus primarily on short-
horizon manipulation and learn policies largely from scratch,
LWD post-trains a pretrained generalist VLA policy across
diverse real-world tasks, including long-horizon manipula-
tion. Bousmalis et al. [50] and Herzog et al. [52] further
study learning from large-scale robot experience, but the
former relies on behavior cloning while the latter targets
task-specific RL for waste sorting. Most recently, SOP Pan
et al. [49] formalizes the system substrate for scalable online
post-training of VLA policies, coupling a distributed robot
fleet with a centralized cloud learner and asynchronous policy
synchronization. Building on this deployment substrate, LWD
instantiates the learning algorithm with offline-to-online RL:

===== PAGE 4 =====
it jointly leverages prior offline data and newly collected fleet
experience to improve a single generalist policy across long-
horizon real-world tasks.
This distinction shifts the contribution from distributed
execution alone to an RL-driven data flywheel, where large-
scale deployment continually supplies experience for policy
improvement.
III. PRELIMINARIES
A. Problem Setting and Notation
We formulate robot control as a Markov decision process
M= (S,A,T, r, γ), whereγ∈(0,1]is the discount factor.
We consider a set of tasks indexed byk∈ K. Each states=
(o, ℓk)∈ Sconsists of a robot observationoand a language
instructionℓ k specifying taskk. For long-horizon tasks,ℓ k
is a high-level command, such as ‘Make Tea’ rather than a
sequence of low-level subtask instructions. In our setting, we
use sparse binary rewards, withr= 1only when an episode
terminates successfully andr= 0otherwise.
LWD trains one shared generalist VLA policy across all
tasks. At timet, the policy takes the states t as input and
outputs an action chunk
at ≡a t:t+H = [at, at+1, . . . , at+H−1]∼π θ(· |s t),(1)
which is executed before replanning. The corresponding chunk
reward is
rt ≡r t:t+H =
H−1X
i=0
γirt+i.(2)
Thus, mixed-task replay samples are written abstractly as
(st,a t,r t, st+H)∼ D, whereDdenotes the replay distri-
bution. In the offline stage,Dis induced by samples from
Boff; in the online stage, it is induced by mixed replays from
Boff ∪ Bon. Throughout the method, the generalist policy and
critic operate on action chunks.
B. Implicit Q-Learning
Implicit Q-Learning (IQL) [23] avoids explicit action max-
imization by fitting ascalarstate-value function to a high
expectileof dataset action-values. Using the chunk notation
from above, witha t andr t, IQL fits
LIQL
V (ψ) =E D
h
ρτ,2(Q¯ϕ(st,a t)−V IQL
ψ (st))
i
,(3)
where
ρτ,2(u) =|τ−I(u <0)|u 2,(4)
andQ ¯ϕ denotes the target network, whose parameters are
updated by exponential moving average. The criticQ ϕ is
trained with the value-based TD target
yIQL
t =r t +γ H V IQL
ψ (st+H),(5)
using
LIQL
Q (ϕ) =E D

Qϕ(st,a t)−y IQL
t
2
.(6)
Forτ >1/2, this value estimate is biased toward higher-
valued dataset actions, giving an implicit improvement target
without amax a Q(s,a)backup. In LWD, we retain thisasym-
metric bootstrapprinciple, but replace scalar expectile value
regression with adistributionalvalue model andquantile-
based value extraction.
C. Flow Matching and Q-learning with Adjoint Matching
Flow Matching (FM) [53] represents a generative policy
as a time-dependent vector field. Given a data action chunk
a1 =aand Gaussian noisea 0 ∼ N(0, I), FM defines the
interpolation
aw = (1−w)a 0 +wa 1, w∈[0,1],(7)
and trains a conditional vector fieldf θ(s,a w, w)to match
the velocitya 1 −a 0. Flow-based VLA policies use this
construction as an action-generation head [5, 6].
For policy extraction, a flow policy must be optimized
through a multi-step generation process, making direct critic
backpropagation costly and potentially unstable. Q-learning
with Adjoint Matching (QAM) [25] addresses this problem by
combining TD critic learning with an adjoint-matching policy
update. Given a pretrained reference flowf β and a criticQ ϕ,
QAM defines the KL-regularized improvement target
π∗(a|s)∝π β(a|s) exp (Q ϕ(s,a)/λ),(8)
whereλis the temperature. The resulting policy update can
be written as a local regression objective along trajectories of
the reference flow:
fδ(s,a w, w) =fθ(s,a w, w)−f β(s,a w, w)
LQAM(θ) =E
"Z 1
0

2fδ(s,a w, w)
σw
+σ w˜gw

2
2
dw
#
, (9)
whereσ w =
p
2(1−w)wand˜g w is the adjoint state with
terminal condition
˜g1 =−∇ a

Qϕ(s,a 1)/λ

.(10)
LWD uses QAM [25] as its policy-extraction mechanism,
using the critic learned form DIVL to form local regression
targets for the flow policy.
IV. LEARNING WHILEDEPLOYING
LWD follows the offline-to-online procedure shown in
Fig. 2(a). The offline stage trains the policy, critic, and distri-
butional value model on a static replay bufferB off, providing
the initialization for deployment. The online stage deploys
the current policy to a fleet of robot actors for autonomous
rollouts, which populateB on with policy transitions and op-
tional human interventions. The learner updatesV ψ,Q ϕ, and
fθ on mixed replay fromB off ∪Bon, and periodically redeploys
the updated policy. This forms a data flywheel: robot rollouts
expand replay, mixed replay updates the policy, and refreshed
checkpoints are redeployed to the fleet.
This procedure contains two key algorithmic components.
First,Distributional Implicit Value Learning (DIVL)trains the
criticQ ϕ and the distributional value modelV ψ for value
learning. Second, QAM-based policy extraction updates the
flow policyf θ using the action gradient ofQ ϕ learned from
DIVL.

===== PAGE 5 =====
Stage 1: Offline RL Pre-training
a) Pipeline
Stage 2: Continuous Online Post-training Initialized Params
𝜋𝜃(𝑠), 𝑄𝜙(𝑠, 𝑎) & 𝑉𝜓(𝑠)
50%
50%
Offline Buffer
Offline Buffer
Online Buffer
b) RL Algorithm Structure
Action
Distributional Value Head
𝑄(𝑠, 𝑎)
Action
TD Backup
𝑉(𝑠)
𝜋𝜃(𝑠), 𝑄𝜙(𝑠, 𝑎) & 𝑉𝜓(𝑠) Generalist Policy 𝜋𝜃(𝑠)
VLM Action Expert
Noise
Critic Head
∇𝑎𝑄(𝑠, 𝑎)
DIVL & QAM
DIVL & QAM
Value Learning (DIVL) Policy Extraction (QAM)
VLM
“Make Tea” Proprio. Readout 
Token
Action Head
···
Robot Fleet
Policy Transitions
Optional Human Interventions
Robot-1
 Robot-2
 Robot-3
 Robot-N
Autonomous 
Rollouts
“Make Tea” Proprio.
Fig. 2:LWD overview.(a)Pipeline.Training is organized into two stages. Stage 1 performs offline RL pre-training on an
offline buffer. Stage 2 conducts continuous online post-training with mixed replay from both the static offline buffer and a
continuously updated online buffer. A fleet of actors is autonomously deployed on diverse real-world robot tasks to collect
online data and appends it to a continually updated online buffer. (b)Algorithm structure.A VLM-based modelπ θ(s)maps
states to action chunks through a policy head, which is optimized with QAM loss for policy extraction. In parallel, a critic
Qϕ(s,a)and a distributional valueV ψ(s)are trained with TD losses for value learning.
A. Distributional Implicit Value Learning
Distributional Implicit Value Learning (DIVL) is the value-
learning component of LWD. It learns a distribution over
replay action-values and uses a quantile of this distribution as
the bootstrap target for the chunk-level criticQ ϕ(st,a t). This
design keeps the asymmetric bootstrap principle of IQL [23]
while avoiding a single scalar expectile target.
Concretely, the distributional value modelV ψ(st)represents
the state-conditioned distribution of dataset action-values [54]:
pψ(v|s t) =P(v=Q ϕ(st,a t)|a t ∼ D(· |s t)).(11)
whereD(· |s t)denotes the empirical replay action distribution
conditioned ons t. Thus,V ψ(st)is not a scalar value estimate.
Instead, it represents the distribution of scalar critic values
assigned to replay actions at states t.
We fit this distribution by minimizing the negative log-
likelihood of scalar critic targets from the exponential-moving-
average (EMA) criticQ ¯ϕ:
LV (ψ) =E (st,at)∼D
h
−logp ψ
 
Q¯ϕ(st,a t)|s t
i
.(12)
In our implementation,p ψ is represented as categorical dis-
cretization; Appendix A1 gives the details.
Compared with scalar regression used in IQL, such dis-
tributional parameterization is better matched to LWD. Prior
work [55] finds that a categorical distributional representation
of return values is helpful in diverse multi-task offline RL
settings. Moreover, it supports two designs used below: the
bootstrap statistic is selected as a quantile ofp ψ(v|s t)without
refitting a scalar value function, and the entropy ofp ψ(v|s t)
provides the uncertainty signal for adaptingτ.
We use theτ-quantile ofV ψ(st)as the bootstrap statistic:
Quantτ
 
Vψ(st)

≜inf{v:F ψ(v|s t)≥τ}.(13)
whereF ψ(v|s t)be the cumulative distribution function
induced byp ψ(v|s t). This yields the TD target
yQ =r t +γ H Quantτ
 
Vψ(st+H)

,(14)
and the critic loss
LQ(ϕ) =E (st,at,rt,st+H)∼D
h 
Qϕ(st,a t)−y Q
2i
.(15)
Theτ-quantile is an in-distribution optimistic bootstrap
statistic over replay actions, rather than an explicit max backup
over the full action space. This fits the offline RL setting,
where the target should favor high-value replay actions without
extrapolating aggressively beyond the data. IQL addresses
the same issue with scalar expectile value regression. DIVL
keeps this asymmetric value-learning principle, but realizes it
through a distributional model and a quantile statistic.

===== PAGE 6 =====
To make this connection explicit, we write the value target
under a generalized asymmetric loss family:
ρτ,p(u) =|τ−I(u <0)| · |u| p,(16)
wherep= 2gives the expectile form used by IQL andp= 1
gives the quantile form used by DIVL.
Proposition 1 (Distributional view of asymmetric value learn-
ing):For any fixed asymmetric loss in this family, direct
scalar regression and our two-step procedure of fitting the
value distribution and extracting the corresponding asymmetric
statistic yield the same optimal scalar value.
See Appendix A2 for proof. The proposition shows that
DIVL’s two-step procedure of distributional value estimation
andτ-quantile extraction has the same optimum as the corre-
sponding direct asymmetric value regression objective.
This result supports using a quantile of the learned value
distribution as the bootstrap target for a fixedτ. The value ofτ
controls the optimism of this target: larger values select higher
quantiles and give more optimistic targets, while smaller
values give more conservative ones. In mixed-task replay, the
same level of optimism is not appropriate for every state, so
we adaptτusing uncertainty in the learned value distribution.
Specifically, we use the normalized entropy of the categor-
ical distributionp ψ(· |s t+H)as the uncertainty signal:
H(st+H) =− 1
logC
CX
c=1
pψ,c(st+H) logp ψ,c(st+H),(17)
whereCis the number of categories andp ψ,c(st+H)is the
probability assigned to categoryc. Then, the adaptive schedule
is
τ(s t+H) = clip
 
τbase −αH(s t+H), τ min, τ max

,(18)
whereτ base is the target for confident states,α≥0con-
trols uncertainty sensitivity, and the hyperparameter values
are reported in Appendix B2. Diffuse distributions receive
lowerτvalues to reduce overestimation, while concentrated
distributions retain more optimistic targets. We treatτ(s t+H)
as stop-gradient when computing the TD target.
B. Policy Extraction via QAM
Policy extraction in LWD starts from a pretrained flow-
matching VLA and aims to improve its action distribution
using the DIVL critic. Existing offline RL methods often
extract a policy without differentiating throughQ ϕ, for exam-
ple by advantage-weighted regression on replay actions [56,
43, 23, 57]. This update is poorly matched to flow-based
VLA policies, since it requires evaluating the log likelihood
of action chunks under the multi-step denoising process of
the flow policy. More generally, the KL-regularized policy
improvement target has a Boltzmann form, whose normalizer
requires integrating over high-dimensional action chunks.
An alternative is to use the first-order action gradient
∇aQϕ(s,a)to improve sampled action chunks. For flow poli-
cies, however, applying this update via direct backpropagation
through the full multi-step generation process is computation-
ally expensive and numerically unstable (see Appendix A3 for
analysis). This makes direct critic backpropagation difficult to
use as the optimization method for large VLA policies.
We therefore use QAM for policy extraction [25] as shown
in the right of Fig. 2(b). As outlined in Section III-C, QAM
reformulates trajectory-level policy optimization into a local
regression objective along the reference flow. Specifically,
the DIVL criticQ ϕ supplies the reward-informed gradient to
initialize the terminal adjoint state˜g 1, which in turn guides
the refinement of the policy vector field (Eq. (10)).
In particular, we keepf β fixed as the behavior-cloned
flow initialized before offline RL, and optimizef θ throughout
both offline and online training. For each replay minibatch,
as shown in lines 5–7 of Algorithm 2, we sample states
and Gaussian noise, roll outf β to generate reference flow
trajectories, evaluate∇ aQϕ(s,a)at the generated endpoint,
solve the adjoint dynamics, and regressf θ toward the resulting
local targets.
C. Offline to Online RL Training Pipeline
Following the LWD loop in Fig. 2(a) as introduced in
the opening of Section IV, post-training proceeds in two
stages that share the same value-learning and policy-extraction
objectives but differ in data source.
The offline stage trains on an offline bufferB off as shown
in the Stage 1 of Fig. 2(a) and lines 4–7 of Algorithm 1.
This offline buffer contains three sources:demonstrations,
expert-collected successful trajectories;rollouts, generated by
historical policies, including both successes and failures; and
play data, consisting of human-guided exploration of failure
modes. All three sources are converted into the same chunked
transition format as online replay, with terminal success or fail-
ure labels used to assign sparse binary rewards. The details of
data structure are shown in Table IV. LWD applies the offline
buffer to pre-train the policyπ θ, criticQ ϕ and distributional
valueV ψ, providing a strong initialization for deployment and
training in the online stage.
Moreover, since long-horizon tasks last thousands of steps
and have extremely sparse rewards, the one-step target in
Eq. (14) can propagate success signals slowly. We therefore
use ann-step chunk-level TD target in the offline stage to
cold-start the critic and distributional value model:
yQ =
n−1X
i=0
γiH rt+iH +γ nHQuantτ(s t+nH)
 
Vψ(st+nH)

,
(19)
wheren= 1for short tasks such as grocery restocking
tasks andn= 10for long-horizon tasks. If an episode
terminates within then-step window, we truncate the return at
the terminal chunk and remove the bootstrap term. This target
accelerates sparse reward propagation through the fixed offline
replay buffer. During online training, we found long multi-step
targets less effective. One possible reason is that online trajec-
tories mix policy transitions with human interventions. Longer
backups are more likely to cross these sources, so the TD path

===== PAGE 7 =====
Algorithm 1LWD: Offline-to-Online Training Pipeline
Require:offline bufferB off; demonstration datasetD demo ⊂
Boff; online bufferB on; robot actor fleetF; offline budget
Noff; online budgetN on; actor-sync periodN sync.
1:Pretrain policyπ θ ← Ddemo
2:Set fixed reference policyπ β ←π θ
3:InitializeQ ϕ,V ψ; set targetQ ¯ϕ ←Q ϕ
// Stage 1: Offline Pretraining
4:fori←1 :N off do
5:Sample mini-batchB mini ∼ Boff
6:(Q ϕ, Vψ, πθ, Q ¯ϕ)←LEARNER(B mini;Q ϕ, Vψ, πθ, πβ, Q ¯ϕ)
7:end for
// Stage 2: Continuous Online Training
Robot actor process (Asynchronously):
8:Deployπ θ to each robot fromF
9:whileonline training is activedo
10:done←F alse;T←0
11:whilenotdonedo
12:Executea←π θ(s)untildone
13:ifintervention is requiredthen
14:Human interventsa←a H
15:end if
16:s ′ ←UpdateObs(s,a)
17:done←I[T imeLimit∨F ailure∨Success]
18:r←I[done∧Success]
19:T←T+ 1
20:end while
21:r←UpdateChunkedReward(r)
22:B on ← Bon ∪ {(st,a t,r t, s′
t+H)}
23:π θ ←FetchNewPolicy(π new
θ )
24:end while
Central learner process (Asynchronously):
25:forj←1 :N on do
26:Sample mini-batchB mini ∼ {Boff ∪ Bon}
27:(Q ϕ, Vψ, πθ, Q ¯ϕ)←LEARNER(B mini;Q ϕ, Vψ, πθ, πβ, Q ¯ϕ)
28:ifjmodN sync = 0then
29:Deploy latest policyπ θ to each robot fromF
30:end if
31:end for
32:returnQ ϕ,V ψ,π θ
may not correspond to a single policy execution. Since the
critic and value model already have offline initialization, we
therefore use 1-step chunk-level TD targets for online updates.
The online stage deploys the offline-initialized policy to the
robot fleet, as shown in Stage 2 of Fig. 2(a) and lines 8–31
of Algorithm 1. Robots execute the current policy checkpoint
and asynchronously streampolicy transitionsinto an online
bufferB on. When a rollout requires correction, as judged by
human, the operator may intervene. Intervention segments are
stored inB on as regular online replay transitions with the
executed corrective actions, and rewards are assigned using
the same terminal success or failure labels as autonomous
Algorithm 2LEARNER: Single Update of DIVL and QAM
Require:mini-batchB mini ={(s t,a t,r t, st+H)}; criticQ ϕ
with targetQ ¯ϕ; distributional valueV ψ; policyπ θ with
reference policyπ β; EMA rateρ.
// Distributional Implicit Value
Learning
1:Updateψby minimizing Eq. (12)
2:Compute TD targety Q via Eq. (19)
3:Updateϕby minimizing Eq. (15)
4: ¯ϕ←ρ ¯ϕ+ (1−ρ)ϕ
// Policy Extraction via QAM
5:Sample Gaussian noisea 0
t ∼ N(0, I)
6:Roll out the reference trajectory{a w
t }w∈[0,1] viaπ β
7:Set the endpointa 1
t =a t
8:Updateθby minimizing Eq. (9) with˜g 1 set from action
gradient∇ aQϕ(s,a 1
t )via Eq. (10)
9:return(Q ϕ, Vψ, πθ, Q¯ϕ)
rollouts. Thus, online replay contains both autonomous policy
transitions and human-intervention transitions [17]. Online
Training continues with the same value-learning and policy-
extraction objectives on mixed replay fromB off ∪ Bon, while
updated policy checkpoints are periodically published back to
the robots.
D. Architectures
Fig. 2(b) shows the concrete neural network architecture
used by LWD. The policy and value/critic networks are sepa-
rate modules, isolating action generation from value and critic
optimization. Only the policy checkpoint is asynchronously
distributed to the robot fleet for inference, while the value and
critic networks remain on the centralized learner.
We implementV ψ andQ ϕ with a shared Gemma3–SigLIP
VLM backbone and separate prediction heads. The Gemma 3
language module and SigLIP vision encoder are initialized
from publicly released Gemma 3-270M-IT [58] and SigLIP-
So400M checkpoints [59], while the visual projection layer
and value/critic heads are initialized from scratch.
Following the use of readout tokens as compact transformer
representations [60, 61, 62], we apply the shared backbone
to the multimodal sequence for states t and denote the final
hidden state of the readout token byz t, which serves as the
state representation for both value and critic prediction. The
value head predicts logits over a fixed categorical support.
Following the C51 projection [54], the scalar supervision
targetQ ¯ϕ(st,a t)is clipped to the value support and linearly
projected onto its two neighboring atoms, yielding a target
distributionm t.
The critic conditions on both the state representationz t
and the action chunka t. The action chunk is encoded with
a learned temporal attention pooling layer and concatenated
withz t. The resulting representation is fed into two scalar
critic heads in a clipped double-Q design, where the minimum
critic estimate is used for DIVL target construction and TD

===== PAGE 8 =====
backups to mitigate overestimation.
The actor follows theπ 0.5 flow-based VLA architecture [6].
It consists of a PaliGemma vision-language backbone, instan-
tiated with a Gemma-2B language model and a SigLIP vision
encoder, together with a Gemma-300M action expert for flow-
based action generation.
In the offline RL stage, both the actor and the value/critic
networks are fully fine-tuned; the resulting weights initialize
online training. During online QAM updates, the policy VLM
backbone is frozen and only the action expert is updated, while
the value and critic networks continue to be fully fine-tuned on
mixed replay. This design keeps online policy updates efficient
and preserves the pretrained vision-language representations,
while allowing the value and critic networks to adapt to
the evolving replay distribution and provide updated policy-
improvement signals.
V. EXPERIMENTALEVALUATIONS
We evaluate LWD on eight real-world manipulation tasks
including grocery stocking and long-horizon manipulation
tasks such as tea making, juice making and more. We compare
against the reference policy, SFT [53] and two representative
post-training baselines, RECAP [15] and HG-DAgger [7]. Our
experiments seek answers to whether deployment-time online
updates from a shared robot fleet improve over static or offline
policies in the same task setting; how LWD compares with
the baselines; whether the learned value function provides
a useful progress signal under sparse terminal rewards, and
which design choice of DIVL contributes to the observed
gains. The main results addresses method performance, the
value-function visualization diagnoses whether sparse-reward
value estimates track task progress, and the ablations isolate
the DIVL value-estimation design choices.
A. Experimental Setup
1) Tasks, Evaluation, and Robots:
a) Tasks:We evaluate LWD on eight real-world tasks,
as shown in Fig. 3. The grocery restocking tasks consist
of four distinct tasks: flat-shelf restocking, misplaced-item
correction, freezer restocking with door operation, and open-
cooler restocking with carton handling. Together, they test the
policy’s ability to follow language instructions and generalize
semantically across realistic store scenarios. In each task, the
robot must identify the object specified by the instruction
among cluttered candidates, handle variations in shelf layout
and container geometry, and complete the required placement.
The evaluation varies object instances, clutter, shelf and con-
tainer layouts, language instructions, and store configurations.
We also evaluate our methods on four long-horizon tasks:
brewing Gongfu Tea, making Fruit Juice, making Cocktail, and
packing shoes into a Shoebox. Each episode typically lasts 3–5
minutes and contains 5–8 annotated subtasks, creating long-
range dependencies across planning, manipulation, and recov-
ery. Success requires stable multi-stage executions with pre-
cise contact-rich skills, including grasp adjustment, container
handling, pouring, tool use, and final placement. Evaluation
episodes include natural reset variability in object poses, tool
locations, ingredients, scene initialization, perturbations, and
occasional retry or recovery situations.
b) Evaluation metrics:We report task-level scores for all
tasks, with different scoring protocols for the two task groups.
For the grocery restocking tasks, we follow the protocol of
SOP [49]: an episode is successful if the robot follows the
right language instruction and task completion within the time
limit, yielding a binary success rate. For long-horizon tasks,
we report a step-wise success score. Each annotated sub-step
is scored as 1 (fully autonomous success), 0.5 (success with
minor imperfection, or success with a single retrial), or 0
(failure after multiple attempts), and the task score is the
average across sub-steps. The score is assigned by trained
human evaluators according to a predefined rubric that is
applied consistently across methods and tasks. We additionally
report cycle time on long-horizon tasks to evaluate execution
efficiency. Cycle time is computed over both successful and
failed attempts, with failed trajectories clipped at predefined
task-specific timeout thresholds.
c) Robot fleet setup:All experiments are conducted on
the Agibot G1 dual-arm manipulation platform. Each G1 robot
has two 7-DoF arms with parallel-jaw grippers and three RGB
cameras (one head-view and two wrist-view). The policy runs
joint-position control at 30 Hz. As shown in Fig. 4, we deploy
a fleet of 16 robots for concurrent rollout collection during
online training: 4 robots for the grocery restocking tasks and
3 robots for each long-horizon task. The fleet is connected to a
distributed actor-learner system: edge actors upload complete
episodes, a centralized learner fetches versioned replay data,
and publishes the updated policies to each actor; more details
can be seen in Appendix D. For each online experiment, each
method is allocated a 4-hour wall-clock budget, corresponding
to approximately 60 total hours of online data collected across
the robot fleet. Robots collect rollouts asynchronously, and
episodes from all tasks are pooled into a single online replay
buffer for updating the shared policy. The buffer contains
both autonomous rollouts and human intervention segments
when intervention is required. The learner broadcasts the
updated shared policy to the robot fleet every 50 training steps.
Additional training details and hyperparameters are provided
in Appendix B2.
2) Baselines and Reference Policies:We compare against
two post-training baselines, RECAP and HG-DAgger, and SFT
as a reference policy. SFT only utilizes human demonstrations
with standard flow-matching loss. RECAP [15] starts from
the reference policy and performs iterative post-training on
autonomous rollouts. We preserve its advantage-conditioned
policy-improvement recipe, but implement it in a multi-task
setting. HG-DAgger [7] also starts from the reference policy,
then uses online successful rollouts for training. Implementa-
tion details and hyperparameters are provided in Appendix C1.
B. Main Results
Table I reports the main quantitative results across all eight
real-world tasks. LWD (Online) achieves an average score of

===== PAGE 9 =====
A
B
C
D
E-3E-1 E-4E-2
Fig. 3:Illustrations of our evaluation tasks.Panels A–D show the four long-horizon tasks, and Panel E summarizes the four
grocery restocking tasks.(A) Make Cocktail:A sequence of robot manipulation actions for cocktail making: measuring and
mixing multiple liquors in a shaker, adding ice, shaking the cocktail, pouring it into a stemmed glass, and garnishing it with
a cherry.(B) Brew Gongfu Tea:A robot manipulation sequence for Gongfu tea preparation: adding tea leaves, rinsing and
draining, brewing with hot water, transferring the tea to a fairness pitcher, distributing it into three teacups, and serving.(C)
Make Fruit Juice:The sequence for fruit juicing, including cutting and reorienting the fruit, slicing it into pieces, transferring
the pieces into a juicer, closing the lid, and rotating the control knob to start juicing.(D) Pack Shoes:A manipulation sequence
of packing shoes into a shoebox and placing the shoebox neatly.(E) Grocery Restocking Tasks:Robot manipulation tasks
in various grocery scenarios, including freezer restocking involving door manipulation, open-cooler restocking with carton
handling, and flat-shelf restocking with misplacement correction. Together, the suite stresses semantic grounding, contact-rich
manipulation, long-horizon execution, and recovery from execution errors.
Fig. 4:Fleet of robots.LWD performs online training across
a fleet of 16 robots, continually improving a single generalist
policy on multiple tasks.
0.95, outperforming all baselines across the evaluated tasks
and maintaining strong performance on both short-horizon and
long-horizon tasks.
The benefit of LWD is more pronounced on long-horizon
tasks. LWD (Online) reaches an average long-horizon step-
wise score of0.91, outperforming SFT (0.68), RECAP (0.77),
HG-DAgger (0.73), and LWD (Offline) (0.79). This improve-
ment can be attributed to a consistent offline-to-online RL
training pipeline and more complete utilization of available
data. LWD (Online) incorporates successful demonstrations,
play data, and both successful and failed online trajectories
into reward-based policy improvement, enabling the policy to
continuously identify and mitigate failure modes encountered
during deployment.
LWD (Offline) builds on the reference policy and improves

===== PAGE 10 =====
0.0
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00Success Rate
0.70 0.71
0.76
0.83
0.93
SFT RECAP HG-DAgger LWD
(Offline)
LWD
(Online)
Cocktail
0.0
0.50
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00Success Rate
0.64
0.84
0.60
0.72
0.89
SFT RECAP HG-DAgger LWD
(Offline)
LWD
(Online)
Gongfu Tea
0.0
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00Success Rate0.66
0.82
0.66
0.74
0.90
SFT RECAP HG-DAgger LWD
(Offline)
LWD
(Online)
Fruit Juicing
0.0
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00Success Rate
0.70 0.70
0.90
0.86
0.92
SFT RECAP HG-DAgger LWD
(Offline)
LWD
(Online)
Shoebox
0.0
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00Success Rate
0.84
0.94
0.96 0.97
0.99
SFT RECAP HG-DAgger LWD
(Offline)
LWD
(Online)
Grocery Restocking
Cocktail Gongfu T ea Fruit Juicing Shoebox
0
50
100
150
200
250
300Time (s)
Cycle Time
LWD (Online)SFT
Fig. 5:Success scores and cycle-time comparison.LWD achieves higher success scores while reducing mean cycle time
relative to the static SFT reference policy. Complete results are shown in Table I.
TABLE I:Complete results on eight real-world manipulation tasks, covering four grocery restocking tasks and four long-
horizon tasks. We report task success rate for each task (binary success for grocery restocking tasks; average step-wise score
across sub-steps for long-horizon Tasks) and the average across all eight tasks in the last column. The best result per column
is shown in bold. Our LWD (Online) attains the best overall average (0.95) and achieves the top score on all four long-horizon
tasks, while remaining at or near the best on the grocery restocking tasks.
Method Grocery Restocking Tasks Long-Horizon Tasks Average
Restocking Correction Freezer Open-Cooler Gongfu Tea Fruit Juice Cocktail Shoebox
SFT [53] 0.70 0.88 0.83 0.95 0.64 0.66 0.70 0.70 0.76
RECAP [15] 0.95 0.96 0.94 0.95 0.84 0.82 0.71 0.70 0.85
HG-DAgger [7]1.000.92 0.921.000.60 0.66 0.76 0.90 0.85
LWD (Offline, Ours)1.00 1.000.92 0.95 0.72 0.74 0.83 0.86 0.88
LWD (Online, Ours) 1.00 1.00 0.970.980.89 0.90 0.93 0.92 0.95
it through offline reinforcement learning. It trains on an of-
fline replay buffer containing successful demonstrations, failed
rollouts, and diverse play data, allowing the policy to exploit
reward and outcome information beyond imitation-only super-
vision. We further observe that HG-DAgger yields only limited
gains over the reference policy on long-horizon tasks and can
even degrade performance on some tasks. A likely reason is
that DAgger-style training relies on human correction data,
whose variability can introduce inconsistencies and provide
limited exploration of the broader state space. In contrast,
RL can exploit a wider range of states and directly optimize
task-specific rewards. For long-horizon tasks, terminal success
signals can be propagated to earlier decision steps through
TD backups, improving value estimation across different task
stages and providing a stronger learning signal for policy
improvement.
On the grocery restocking tasks, all methods except SFT
achieve high scores, leaving limited room for improvement.
Even in this saturated regime, LWD (Online) remains at or
near the best-performing result on every grocery task. This
indicates that LWD provides benefits beyond long-horizon
tasks while preserving the generalist behavior of the shared
policy during online learning.
Fig. 5 further reports the mean and standard error of cycle
time on long-horizon tasks. LWD reduces mean cycle time by
23.75seconds compared with reference policy. This efficiency
gain is consistent with the critic-guided policy update. The
learned value function favors action chunks that make reliable
task progress. As a result, the policy reduces hesitations,
retries, and unstable intermediate behaviors, rather than only
improving eventual task completion.
Fig. 6 visualizes the value estimate during a successful and
a failed Gongfu Tea episode. In the successful episode, the
value tends to increase as the robot completes key sub-steps

===== PAGE 11 =====
Fig. 6:Visualizations of value learning.We plot quantile values of the learned distributional value functionVover time
for representative Gongfu Tea episodes. The left trajectory succeeds and the right trajectory fails. The curves are qualitative
diagnostics and are consistent with the learned value estimate tracking task-progress differences in these examples.
TABLE II:Ablation of value learning design.We report the
average success rate on the short-horizon (grocery restocking
tasks) and long-horizon tasks under offline and online settings.
Method Short-Horizon Long-Horizon
Offline Online Offline Online
Expectile Regression 0.96 0.97 0.72 0.78
DIVL (Ours) 0.97 (+1.0%) 0.99 (+2.1%) 0.79 (+9.7%) 0.91 (+16.7%)
and approaches task completion, suggesting that the learned
value can reflect progress despite sparse terminal rewards. In
the failure episode, the value fluctuates locally but remains
lower after the execution stops making progress toward the
annotated task milestones. Additional visualizations of the
predicted value distributions are provided in Appendix Fig. 9.
C. Ablation Study
1) Value Learning Design:We compare DIVL with scalar
expectile value regression while keeping all other components
fixed. DIVL outperforms the scalar baseline on all tasks, with
larger gains on long-horizon tasks (9.7%in the offline stage
and16.7%in the online stage). In fleet deployment, the replay
buffer contains diverse successful, failed, and intervention
trajectories collected across tasks and scenes. By compress-
ing heterogeneous outcomes into a single expected value, a
scalar value function blurs rare but reproducible high-return
behaviors. A distributional value instead retains the return
distribution, preserving these high-return modes and providing
a more informative signal for policy improvement. Complete
per-task results are reported in Appendix Table V.
2) AdaptiveτStrategy:We further ablate the adaptive
τstrategy used in DIVL during offline LWD training. We
compare the adaptive schedule against a constant-τbaseline,
where the constant value (τ= 0.52) is set to the averageτ
observed from training statistics in the adaptive-τrun; all other
components are kept identical. Table III shows that adaptiveτ
improves the average offline score from0.84to0.88. Although
the constant baseline is competitive on a few individual tasks,
the adaptive schedule gives more consistent gains across all
tasks, especially on Restocking, Correction, and Cocktail. This
indicates that conditioningτon distributional entropy helps
calibrate bootstrap optimism, making targets more conserva-
tive under high uncertainty and more optimistic when the value
estimate is confident.
VI. CONCLUSION
We present Learning While Deploying (LWD), a large-scale
real-world reinforcement learning framework for post-training
generalist robot policies. LWD first initializes the policy from
previously collected robot data, then continues improving it
through online RL during deployment. The framework uses
DIVL for value learning and QAM for policy extraction.
Across eight real-world manipulation tasks spanning grocery
restocking and long-horizon manipulation, LWD delivers the
best overall performance, with the most pronounced improve-
ments on long-horizon tasks.
These results suggest a practical path toward large-scale
real-world deployment of continuously improving robot sys-
tems. With LWD, deployment is not only the setting in which
the policy is evaluated, but also the mechanism through which
the policy improves. Interaction data collected from the robot
fleet is aggregated into a shared learning process, enabling
a generalist policy to continue improving across tasks. This
is critical for real-world robotic systems that must operate in
heterogeneous tasks and environments.
Our method has several limitations. First, the current online
learning pipeline updates with a straightforward real-time
schedule. This design may not be optimal for larger-scale de-
ployment or long-term continual improvement. More efficient
and stable update strategies remain an important direction for
future work. Second, our long-horizon experiments rely on a
single short language instruction for each task. However, com-
plex tasks require stronger vision-language reasoning for task
decomposition, as well as finer-grained prompts for closed-
loop execution and error recovery. Third, our current policy
learning framework does not explicitly model execution safety.
Incorporating safety-aware learning and control mechanisms
will be important for reliable real-world deployment. Despite
these limitations, this work represents a step toward large-scale

===== PAGE 12 =====
TABLE III:Ablation of the adaptiveτstrategy in offline LWD.We compare the adaptiveτschedule with a constantτ
baseline. For the constant baseline,τis set to the empirical average value of the adaptive schedule from the adaptive-τrun
(τ= 0.52), while all other training components are kept unchanged.
Method Grocery Restocking Tasks Long-Horizon Tasks Average
Restocking Correction Freezer Open-Cooler Gongfu Tea Fruit Juice Cocktail Shoebox
LWD Offline, constantτ0.85 0.880.94 0.950.700.760.700.900.84
LWD Offline, adaptiveτ1.00 1.000.920.95 0.720.740.830.860.88
real-world deployment, with the long-term goal of continu-
ously scaling robot learning systems for robust execution in
unstructured environments.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank Qiyang Li for helpful discussions.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Brohan, N. Brown, J. Carbajal, Y . Chebotar, J. Dabis,
C. Finn, K. Gopalakrishnan, K. Hausmanet al., “Rt-
1: Robotics transformer for real-world control at scale,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[2] B. Zitkovich, T. Yu, S. Xu, P. Xu, T. Xiao, F. Xia,
J. Wu, P. Wohlhartet al., “Rt-2: Vision-language-action
models transfer web knowledge to robotic control,” in
Conference on Robot Learning. PMLR, 2023, pp. 2165–
2183.
[3] O. M. Team, D. Ghosh, H. Walke, K. Pertsch, K. Black,
O. Mees, S. Dasari, J. Hejnaet al., “Octo: An
open-source generalist robot policy,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2405.12213, 2024.
[4] M. J. Kim, K. Pertsch, S. Karamcheti, T. Xiao, A. Bal-
akrishna, S. Nair, R. Rafailov, E. Fosteret al., “Openvla:
An open-source vision-language-action model,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2406.09246, 2024.
[5] K. Black, N. Brown, D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. Equi,
C. Finn, N. Fusai, L. Groomet al., “π 0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[6] K. Black, N. Brown, J. Darpinian, K. Dhabalia,
D. Driess, A. Esmail, M. R. Equi, C. Finnet al., “π 0.5:
A vision-language-action model with open-world gener-
alization,” in9th Annual Conference on Robot Learning,
2025.
[7] M. Kelly, C. Sidrane, K. Driggs-Campbell, and M. J.
Kochenderfer, “Hg-dagger: Interactive imitation learning
with human experts,” in2019 International Conference
on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), 2019, pp. 8077–
8083.
[8] C. J. Watkins and P. Dayan, “Q-learning,”Machine
learning, vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 279–292, 1992.
[9] S. Fujimoto, H. Hoof, and D. Meger, “Addressing func-
tion approximation error in actor-critic methods,” in
International conference on machine learning. PMLR,
2018, pp. 1587–1596.
[10] T. P. Lillicrap, J. J. Hunt, A. Pritzel, N. M. O. Heess,
T. Erez, Y . Tassa, D. Silver, and D. P. Wierstra, “Contin-
uous control with deep reinforcement learning,” Sep. 15
2020, uS Patent 10,776,692.
[11] T. Haarnoja, A. Zhou, P. Abbeel, and S. Levine, “Soft
actor-critic: Off-policy maximum entropy deep reinforce-
ment learning with a stochastic actor,” inInternational
conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2018, pp.
1861–1870.
[12] K. Lei, H. Li, D. Yu, Z. Wei, L. Guo, Z. Jiang, Z. Wang,
S. Lianget al., “Rl-100: Performant robotic manipulation
with real-world reinforcement learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.14830, 2025.
[13] Y . Li, X. Ma, J. Xu, Y . Cui, Z. Cui, Z. Han, L. Huang,
T. Konget al., “Gr-rl: Going dexterous and precise
for long-horizon robotic manipulation,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2512.01801, 2025.
[14] Y . Chen, S. Tian, S. Liu, Y . Zhou, H. Li, and
D. Zhao, “Conrft: A reinforced fine-tuning method
for vla models via consistency policy,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2502.05450, 2025.
[15] A. Amin, R. Aniceto, A. Balakrishna, K. Black, K. Con-
ley, G. Connors, J. Darpinian, K. Dhabaliaet al.,
“π∗
0.6: a vla that learns from experience,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2511.14759, 2025.
[16] J. Luo, Z. Hu, C. Xu, Y . L. Tan, J. Berg, A. Sharma,
S. Schaal, C. Finnet al., “Serl: A software suite for
sample-efficient robotic reinforcement learning,” in2024
IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automa-
tion (ICRA), 2024, pp. 16 961–16 969.
[17] J. Luo, C. Xu, J. Wu, and S. Levine, “Precise and
dexterous robotic manipulation via human-in-the-loop
reinforcement learning,”Science Robotics, vol. 10, no.
105, p. eads5033, 2025.
[18] G. Lu, W. Guo, C. Zhang, Y . Zhou, H. Jiang, Z. Gao,
Y . Tang, and Z. Wang, “Vla-rl: Towards masterful and
general robotic manipulation with scalable reinforcement
learning,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.18719, 2025.
[19] S. Tan, K. Dou, Y . Zhao, and P. Kr¨ahenb¨uhl, “Interactive
post-training for vision-language-action models,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2505.17016, 2025.
[20] K. Chen, Z. Liu, T. Zhang, Z. Guo, S. Xu, H. Lin,
H. Zang, Q. Zhanget al., “πrl: Online rl fine-tuning
for flow-based vision-language-action models,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2510.25889, 2025.
[21] J. Liu, G. Liu, J. Liang, Y . Li, J. Liu, X. Wang, P. Wan,

===== PAGE 13 =====
D. Zhanget al., “Flow-grpo: Training flow matching
models via online rl,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.05470,
2025.
[22] T. Zhang, C. Yu, S. Su, and Y . Wang, “Reinflow: Fine-
tuning flow matching policy with online reinforcement
learning,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.22094, 2025.
[23] I. Kostrikov, A. Nair, and S. Levine, “Offline reinforce-
ment learning with implicit q-learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2110.06169, 2021.
[24] C. Domingo-Enrich, M. Drozdzal, B. Karrer, and R. T.
Chen, “Adjoint matching: Fine-tuning flow and diffusion
generative models with memoryless stochastic optimal
control,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.08861, 2024.
[25] Q. Li and S. Levine, “Q-learning with adjoint matching,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.14234, 2026.
[26] M. Nakamoto, S. Zhai, A. Singh, M. Sobol Mark, Y . Ma,
C. Finn, A. Kumar, and S. Levine, “Cal-ql: Calibrated
offline rl pre-training for efficient online fine-tuning,”
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
vol. 36, pp. 62 244–62 269, 2023.
[27] Z. Zhang, K. Zheng, Z. Chen, J. Jang, Y . Li,
S. Han, C. Wang, M. Dinget al., “Grape: Generalizing
robot policy via preference alignment,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2411.19309, 2024.
[28] H. Zang, M. Wei, S. Xu, Y . Wu, Z. Guo, Y . Wang,
H. Lin, L. Shiet al., “Rlinf-vla: A unified and effi-
cient framework for vla+ rl training,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2510.06710, 2025.
[29] J. Liu, F. Gao, B. Wei, X. Chen, Q. Liao, Y . Wu, C. Yu,
and Y . Wang, “What can rl bring to vla generalization? an
empirical study,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.19789, 2025.
[30] C. Xu, Q. Li, J. Luo, and S. Levine, “Rldg: Robotic
generalist policy distillation via reinforcement learning,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09858, 2024.
[31] C. Li, R. Zhang, J. Wong, C. Gokmen, S. Srivastava,
R. Martin-Martin, C. Wang, G. Levineet al., “Behavior-
1k: A benchmark for embodied ai with 1,000 everyday
activities and realistic simulation,” inProceedings of The
6th Conference on Robot Learning, ser. Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, vol. 205, 2023, pp. 80–93.
[32] T. Mu, Z. Ling, F. Xiang, D. Yang, X. Li, S. Tao,
Z. Huang, Z. Jiaet al., “Maniskill: Generalizable manip-
ulation skill benchmark with large-scale demonstrations,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.14483, 2021.
[33] B. Liu, Y . Zhu, C. Gao, Y . Feng, Q. Liu, Y . Zhu, and
P. Stone, “Libero: Benchmarking knowledge transfer for
lifelong robot learning,”Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, vol. 36, pp. 44 776–44 791, 2023.
[34] Y . Mu, T. Chen, S. Peng, Z. Chen, Z. Gao, Y . Zou, L. Lin,
Z. Xieet al., “Robotwin: Dual-arm robot benchmark with
generative digital twins (early version),” inEuropean
Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 2024, pp.
264–273.
[35] H. Zang, S. Yu, H. Lin, T. Zhou, Z. Huang, Z. Guo,
X. Xu, J. Zhouet al., “Rlinf-user: A unified and ex-
tensible system for real-world online policy learning in
embodied ai,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.07837, 2026.
[36] Z. Jiang, S. Zhou, Y . Jiang, Z. Huang, M. Wei, Y . Chen,
T. Zhou, Z. Guoet al., “Wovr: World models as reliable
simulators for post-training vla policies with rl,”arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.13977, 2026.
[37] H. Li, Y . Zuo, J. Yu, Y . Zhang, Z. Yang, K. Zhang,
X. Zhu, Y . Zhanget al., “Simplevla-rl: Scaling vla
training via reinforcement learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2509.09674, 2025.
[38] S. Park, Q. Li, and S. Levine, “Flow q-learning,” inForty-
second International Conference on Machine Learning,
2025.
[39] L. Kun, Z. He, C. Lu, K. Hu, Y . Gao, and H. Xu, “Uni-o4:
Unifying online and offline deep reinforcement learning
with multi-step on-policy optimization,” inThe Twelfth
International Conference on Learning Representations.
[40] S. Lee, Y . Seo, K. Lee, P. Abbeel, and J. Shin, “Offline-
to-online reinforcement learning via balanced replay and
pessimistic q-ensemble,” inConference on Robot Learn-
ing. PMLR, 2022, pp. 1702–1712.
[41] R. Agarwal, M. Schwarzer, P. S. Castro, A. C. Courville,
and M. Bellemare, “Reincarnating reinforcement learn-
ing: Reusing prior computation to accelerate progress,”
Advances in neural information processing systems,
vol. 35, pp. 28 955–28 971, 2022.
[42] P. J. Ball, L. Smith, I. Kostrikov, and S. Levine, “Effi-
cient online reinforcement learning with offline data,” in
International Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR,
2023, pp. 1577–1594.
[43] A. Nair, A. Gupta, M. Dalal, and S. Levine, “Awac:
Accelerating online reinforcement learning with offline
datasets,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.09359, 2020.
[44] Y . Song, Y . Zhou, A. Sekhari, J. A. Bagnell, A. Krish-
namurthy, and W. Sun, “Hybrid rl: Using both offline
and online data can make rl efficient,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2210.06718, 2022.
[45] A. Wagenmaker, M. Nakamoto, Y . Zhang, S. Park,
W. Yagoub, A. Nagabandi, A. Gupta, and S. Levine,
“Steering your diffusion policy with latent space rein-
forcement learning,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15799,
2025.
[46] D. Kalashnikov, V . Vanhoucke, S. Levine, J. T.
Springenberg, S. Bohez, K. Driessens, J. Schulman,
M. Andrychowiczet al., “Qt-opt: Scalable deep rein-
forcement learning for vision-based robotic manipula-
tion,” inProceedings of the 2nd Conference on Robot
Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Re-
search, vol. 87, 2018, pp. 651–673.
[47] D. Kalashnikov, J. Varley, Y . Chebotar, B. Swanson,
R. Jonschkowski, C. Finn, S. Levine, and K. Haus-
man, “Mt-opt: Continuous multi-task robotic reinforce-
ment learning at scale,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.08212,
2021.
[48] K.-H. Lee, T. Xiao, A. Li, P. Wohlhart, I. Fischer,
and Y . Lu, “Pi-qt-opt: Predictive information improves
multi-task robotic reinforcement learning at scale,” in

===== PAGE 14 =====
Conference on Robot Learning. PMLR, 2023, pp. 1696–
1707.
[49] M. Pan, S. Feng, Q. Zhang, X. Li, J. Song, C. Qu,
Y . Wang, C. Liet al., “Sop: A scalable online
post-training system for vision-language-action models,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2601.03044, 2026.
[50] K. Bousmalis, G. Vezzani, D. Rao, C. Devin, A. X.
Lee, M. Bauz ´a, T. Davchev, Y . Zhouet al., “Robocat: A
self-improving generalist agent for robotic manipulation,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.11706, 2023.
[51] L. Espeholt, H. Soyer, R. Munos, K. Simonyan, V . Mnih,
T. Ward, Y . Doron, V . Firoiuet al., “Impala: Scalable dis-
tributed deep-rl with importance weighted actor-learner
architectures,” inProceedings of the 35th International
Conference on Machine Learning, ser. Proceedings of
Machine Learning Research, vol. 80, 2018, pp. 1407–
1416.
[52] A. Herzog, K. Rao, K. Hausman, Y . Lu, P. Wohlhart,
M. Yan, J. Lin, M. G. Arenaset al., “Deep rl at scale:
Sorting waste in office buildings with a fleet of mobile
manipulators,”arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.03270, 2023.
[53] Y . Lipman, R. T. Q. Chen, H. Ben-Hamu, M. Nickel,
and M. Le, “Flow matching for generative modeling,”
inThe Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023.
[54] M. G. Bellemare, W. Dabney, and R. Munos, “A dis-
tributional perspective on reinforcement learning,” in
Proceedings of the 34th International Conference on
Machine Learning, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, vol. 70, 2017, pp. 449–458.
[55] A. Kumar, R. Agarwal, X. Geng, G. Tucker, and
S. Levine, “Offline q-learning on diverse multi-task
data both scales and generalizes,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.15144, 2022.
[56] X. B. Peng, A. Kumar, G. Zhang, and S. Levine,
“Advantage-weighted regression: Simple and scal-
able off-policy reinforcement learning,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:1910.00177, 2019.
[57] S. Zhang, W. Zhang, and Q. Gu, “Energy-weighted
flow matching for offline reinforcement learning,” in
The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2025.
[58] G. Team, A. Kamath, J. Ferret, S. Pathak, N. Vieillard,
R. Merhej, S. Perrin, T. Matejovicovaet al., “Gemma 3
technical report,” 2025.
[59] X. Zhai, B. Mustafa, A. Kolesnikov, and L. Beyer,
“Sigmoid loss for language image pre-training,” inPro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on
computer vision, 2023, pp. 11 975–11 986.
[60] A. Dosovitskiy, L. Beyer, A. Kolesnikov, D. Weis-
senborn, X. Zhai, T. Unterthiner, M. Dehghani, M. Min-
dereret al., “An image is worth 16x16 words: Trans-
formers for image recognition at scale,”arXiv preprint
arXiv:2010.11929, 2020.
[61] R. Ranftl, A. Bochkovskiy, and V . Koltun, “Vision trans-
formers for dense prediction,” inProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF international conference on computer vision,
2021, pp. 12 179–12 188.
[62] J. Li, D. Li, S. Savarese, and S. Hoi, “Blip-2: Boot-
strapping language-image pre-training with frozen image
encoders and large language models,” inInternational
conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2023, pp.
19 730–19 742.
[63] I. Loshchilov and F. Hutter, “Decoupled weight decay
regularization,” inInternational Conference on Learning
Representations, 2019.
APPENDIX
A. Additional Method Details
1) Discretization of Distributional Value Model:We in-
stantiate the distributional value modelV ψ(s)with a fixed
categorical support{V i}K
i=1 spanning[v min, vmax]. In our real-
robot experiments, we useK= 201atoms over[−0.1,1.1].
The value head predicts logits over this support,
pψ(i|s) = softmax(V ψ(s))i, i∈ {1, . . . , K}.(20)
For each replay sample(s,a), the scalar targetQ ¯ϕ(s,a)
is clipped to[v min, vmax]and linearly projected onto the
two neighboring atoms following the C51 projection [54].
This yields a target distributionm(s,a)over atoms, and the
distributional value model is trained by cross entropy:
LZ(ψ) =−E (s,a)∼D
" KX
i=1
mi(s,a) logp ψ(i|s)
#
.(21)
The discrete CDF is
Fψ(Vj |s) =
X
i≤j
pψ(i|s),(22)
and the quantile used in the DIVL TD target is obtained by
selecting the first atom whose cumulative probability exceeds
the desired level:
Quantτ(Vψ(s)) =V min{j:Fψ(Vj |s)≥τ} .(23)
The normalized entropy used in the adaptiveτstrategy is
H(s) =− 1
logK
KX
i=1
pψ(i|s) logp ψ(i|s)∈[0,1].(24)
2) Proof of the Distributional View of Asymmetric Value
Estimation:We provide the proof of Proposition 1 stated
in Section IV-A. The goal is to show that, under idealized
conditions, direct asymmetric optimization over dataset action-
values and the two-step procedure of first fitting the state-
conditioned distribution of datasetQ-values and then extract-
ing the corresponding asymmetric statistic yield the same
optimal scalar value.
Define the generalized asymmetricL p loss
ρτ,p(u) =|τ−I(u <0)| · |u| p,(25)
whereτ∈(0,1)is the asymmetry parameter. In standard IQL,
the scalar value is obtained by directly minimizing
Jdirect(v) =E a∼D(·|s) [ρτ,p(Q(s,a)−v)].(26)

===== PAGE 15 =====
The first-order optimality condition is
d
dv Jdirect(v) =
Z
D(a|s)· d
dv ρτ,p(Q(s,a)−v) da= 0.(27)
Now consider DIVL in the idealized limit of infinitely fine
discretization and sufficient model capacity. Letp ψ(z|s)
denote the learned state-conditioned density over datasetQ-
values. At optimum, the cross-entropy objective recovers the
pushforward distribution induced bya∼ D(· |s)through the
mappingv=Q(s,a):
pψ(v|s) =P(v=Q(s,a)|a∼ D(· |s)).(28)
Thus, for any integrable test functionf(z),
Ev∼pψ(·|s)[f(z)] =E a∼D(·|s)[f(Q(s,a))].(29)
The second step of DIVL extracts a scalar statistic by mini-
mizing
Jdist(v) =E u∼pψ(·|s) [ρτ,p(u−v)].(30)
Its first-order optimality condition is
d
dv Jdist(v) =
Z
pψ(u|s)· d
dv ρτ,p(u−v) du= 0.(31)
Becausep ψ(· |s)is exactly the pushforward ofa∼ D(· |s)
under the random variableu=Q(s,a), the above integral
is identical to the direct objective’s optimality condition after
change of variables. Therefore,J direct andJ dist admit the same
minimizerv ∗ under the stated idealized assumptions.
This establishes that direct asymmetric optimization and
the distribution-fit-then-extract procedure are equivalent in the
limit. In particular,p= 2recovers the expectile statistic used
in standard IQL, whilep= 1recovers the quantile statistic
used by DIVL.
3) Analysis of Direct Backpropagation for Flow-Based Pol-
icy:Consider a flow-based policy that generates an action
x=x 1 by integrating the vector fielddx t =f θ(xt, t)from
t= 0to1starting fromx 0 ∼ N. Writingx 1 =x 1(x0;θ)
for the terminal sample induced by the flow, the standard RL
objective for reward fine-tuning is
J(θ) =E x0∼N

R
 
x1(x0;θ)

,(32)
and a vanilla policy gradient requires differentiating through
the entire ODE trajectory:
∇θJ(θ) =E x0∼N

∇xR(x1)·
Z 1
0
Φ(1, t)∂fθ(xt, t)
∂θ dt

,
(33)
whereΦ(1, t) = ∂x1
∂xt
is the sensitivity matrix along the flow. In
practice, this formulation is computationally expensive and nu-
merically fragile because it requires backpropagation through
the full ODE solver [24]. Adjoint Matching (Section IV-B)
avoids this issue by reformulating trajectory-level optimization
as local regression targets along the flow path.
B. Implementation and Training Details
1) Offline Data:The offline bufferB off consists of three
types of data:demonstrationdata collected by human experts,
rolloutdata produced by historical policies during prior eval-
uations, andplaydata in which a human operator explores
failure modes and edge cases. Demonstrations are successful
trajectories, rollouts contain both successes and failures, and
play data is treated as unsuccessful exploratory data. Table IV
summarizes the data composition in hours by task. Fig. 7
shows the aggregate source distribution, illustrating the relative
contribution of demonstrations, historical rollouts, and play
data.
2) Training Hyperparameters:The policy emits action
chunks with horizonH= 30. The policy is optimized with
AdamW [63] using a base learning rate of2×10 −5 and
a cosine decay schedule. The value and critic networks are
trained with Adam using a base learning rate of5×10 −4,
also with a cosine decay schedule.
For temporal-difference backups, we useγ= 0.9999.
During offline training, we useτ base = 0.6and uncertainty-
sensitivity coefficientα= 0.3for DIVL. During online
training, we useτ base = 0.9andα= 0.3. Target critic
and value networks are updated with EMA rate0.005, and
the QAM policy-extraction temperature isλ= 2. Theτ
and entropy values during offline and online training are
visualized in Fig. 8. Entropy decreases throughout offline-
to-online training, indicating increasing confidence of value
functions. Accordingly, the expectile parameterτis increased,
encouraging the policy to favor higher-value solutions.
For value learning, offline training uses 10-step chunk-
level TD for long-horizon tasks and 1-step chunk-level TD
for the grocery restocking tasks. Online training uses 1-step
chunk-level TD for all tasks. During online training, each
learner update samples mini-batches fromB off ∪ Bon with an
approximately balanced ratio of1:1.
3) Checkpoint Initialization:We first train an imitation-
learning checkpoint by adapting the pretrainedπ 0.5 VLA
policy on the demonstration data with behavior cloning. LWD
(Offline) initializes its policy from this imitation-learning
checkpoint, then trains the policy with the Adjoint Matching
loss and trains the critic and distributional value model with
DIVL. LWD (Online) initializes from the LWD (Offline)
checkpoint, including both policy and value-learning modules,
and continues training on mixed offline-online replay.
C. Additional Experimental Details
1) Reference Policy and Baseline Implementations:We
obtain the reference policy by supervised fine-tuning [53] the
pretrainedπ 0.5 VLA policy on 336.6 hours of demonstration
data, as shown in Table IV. The model is trained with a
flow-matching loss, where the interpolated noisy actiona w is
defined in Eq. (7).The objective is to train conditional vector
fieldf θ(s,a w, w)to match the velocitya 1−a0 and minimizes:
LSFT =E
hfθ(s,a w, w)−(a 1 −a 0)
2
2
i
,(34)

===== PAGE 16 =====
TABLE IV:Offline data composition (hours).Demonstrations are expert-collected successful data; rollouts are generated by
historical policies and contain both successes and failures; play data consists of human-guided explorations of failure modes.
Task Demo Rollout (Succ) Rollout (Fail) Play Total
Restocking 14.5 10.7 1.7 7.5 34.4
Correction 12.7 10.8 1.7 9.7 34.9
Freezer 10.8 7.7 4.6 3.3 26.4
Open-Cooler 11.1 13.7 1.3 0.8 26.9
Grocery Restocking Tasks (subtotal) 49.2 42.9 9.3 21.3 122.7
Gongfu Tea 102.3 12.4 4.4 43.6 162.7
Fruit Juicing 100.5 17.4 14.7 47.1 179.8
Cocktail 47.3 4.4 7.4 28.0 87.1
Shoebox 37.3 11.7 3.3 48.0 100.3
Long-Horizon Tasks (subtotal) 287.5 45.9 29.8 166.7 529.8
All Tasks 336.6 88.8 39.2 187.9 652.5
24.9%
27.6%
13.3%
15.4%
Restocking (5.3%) Gongfu Tea (24.9%)
Correction (5.3%) Fruit Juicing (27.6%)
Freezer (4.0%) Cocktail (13.3%)
Open-Cooler (4.1%) Shoebox (15.4%)
(a) By task: the Grocery Restocking tasks 18.8%|Long-Horizon 81.2%
51.6%
13.6%
28.8%
6.0%
Demonstration (51.6%, 336.6 h)
Rollout, success (13.6%, 88.8 h)
Rollout, failure (6.0%, 39.2 h)
Play (28.8%, 187.9 h)
(b) By source, colored by outcome: Successful 65.2%|Failure 34.8%
Fig. 7:Offline data composition of the 652.5-hour buffer along two axes. (a)Distribution across tasks: the grocery restocking
tasks (green) and long-horizon tasks (red); long-horizon episodes dominate the buffer by volume due to their substantially longer
duration.(b)Distribution across the three data sources—expertdemonstrations(always successful),rolloutsfrom historical
policies (mixed successful and failure outcomes), and human-guided failure-modeplay(always unsuccessful). Wedges are
colored by trajectory outcome so that the overall success/failure split across the buffer is directly legible: roughly one-third of
the buffer is failure data, which the behavior-cloning baselines cannot use but which provides an informative learning signal
for LWD. Per-task hours are reported in Table IV.
And this reference policy is used for all the post-training
methods.
For the RECAP [15] baseline, we initialize from the ref-
erence policy and adapt RECAP to the eight-task generalist
setting. We collect two rounds of autonomous rollouts: Round
1 uses the SFT checkpoint, and Round 2 uses the RECAP
checkpoint obtained after training on Round 1. Each round
contains approximately 60 robot-hours pooled across all eight
tasks. Following RECAP, we train a value model to compute
advantage labels over the combined dataset of demonstrations
and both autonomous rollout rounds; the value model uses
the same value-network architecture as LWD, described in
Section IV-D, but only the value head. We compute the
lookahead advantage and binary improvement label as
A(st,a t) =
t+H−1X
t′=t
rt′ +V(s t+H)−V(s t),(35)
It =1[A πref (st,a t)> ϵ∨c t = 1],(36)
wherec t indicates that the transition is a human intervention
or correction, which is treated as positive following RECAP
when present. We useH= 30as our action horizon length
and select a single global advantage thresholdϵso that 30%
of transitions in the combined training set satisfy the positive-
advantage condition. This threshold is selected from training
data only and is shared across all tasks to avoid task-specific
tuning. After the second rollout round, we train RECAP for
one epoch over the combined dataset and evaluate the resulting
checkpoint.

===== PAGE 17 =====
0 10k 20k 30k 40k
Step
0.44
0.46
0.48
0.50
0.52
0.54Dynamic 
 Value (Offline)
0 10k 20k 30k 40k
Step
0.20
0.25
0.30
0.35
0.40
0.45
0.50
0.55Normalized Entropy
Normalized Entropy (Offline)
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
Step
0.76
0.77
0.78
0.79
0.80Dynamic 
 Value (Online)
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000
Step
0.32
0.34
0.36
0.38
0.40
0.42
0.44
0.46
0.48Normalized Entropy
Normalized Entropy (Online)
Fig. 8:Dynamicτand normalized entropy during offline-
to-online training.All curves are smoothed for readabil-
ity. Entropy decreases throughout both stages, indicating in-
creasing confidence in value estimation. Accordingly,τis
increased, leading to improved training performance.
Fig. 9:Predicted Value Distributions. In the successful
episode, the predicted distribution remains unimodal and its
mode increases steadily from approximately 0.4 to 1.0. In
contrast, the failure episode shows limited mode progression,
rising only from approximately 0.5 to 0.6 before plateauing.
For the HG-DAgger [7] baseline, we initialize from the
same reference policy checkpoint and run interactive imitation
learning on the eight-task suite. During online execution,
human operators provided intervention segments when correc-
tions are needed. These intervention segments are aggregated
with autonomous rollouts to form an online training buffer
of approximately 60 robot-hours pooled across all eight real-
world tasks. The online buffer, together with the offline
demonstration data buffer, is used for the training of the HG-
DAgger method. We train HG-DAgger from the reference
policy checkpoint using the same batch size and training-
time budget as the corresponding online post-training runs,
and evaluate the resulting checkpoint.
For a fair comparison, the post-training baselines use the
same policy optimizer and learning-rate schedule as LWD.
2) Complete Value-Estimation Ablation Results:Table V
reports the complete per-task results for the value-estimation
ablation summarized in Section V. The comparison isolates the
Robot 1
Robot 2
...
RobotN
EdgeClient
ObjectStorage
MessageQueue
Coordinator
DRBReader CloudLearner
DRBReader CloudLearner
Actor Fleet Distribution & CoordinationCloud Learner (multi-host SPMD JAX)
episodes
events notify
versioned snapshotbatch
model weights
fanout
Fig. 10:Distributed data infrastructure for LWD.Robot
actors upload episodes to object storage and publish event
notifications to a message queue. A centralCoordinatorcon-
sumes notifications, fetches episode metadata, and commits
versioned snapshots. The learner runs as a multi-host SPMD
JAX program; on each node, the dataset (DRB Reader) holds a
snapshot-bound view, spawns a prefetcher subprocess to down-
load payloads from object storage, and feeds mini-batches to
the local learner process. All DRB Readers synchronize on
the same snapshot via a cross-host barrier. Updated model
parameters produced by the collective are published back to all
robot actors via the message-queue-backed publish-subscribe
channel.
value-learning method by replacing DIVL with scalar expectile
value regression while keeping the remaining training setup
fixed.
3) Complementary Qualitative Results of DIVL:Fig. 9 vi-
sualizes the predicted value distributions for the same episodes
shown in Fig. 6. In the successful episode, the predicted
distribution remains unimodal, with its mode steadily increas-
ing from approximately 0.4 to 1.0 as the task progresses.
In contrast, the failure episode exhibits only marginal mode
progression, increasing from approximately 0.5 to 0.6 before
plateauing. These results indicate that the predicted value
distribution provides a fine-grained signal to track policy
progress and distinguish successful execution from failure
cases.
D. Distributed Data Infrastructure
Fig. 10 illustrates LWD’s training data infrastructure, which
links a fleet of robot actors to a multi-host learner via a
versioned-snapshot data plane. On the actor side, each robot
runs an edge client that accumulates per-frame observations
into complete episodes and uploads them to distributed object
storage at episode boundaries; episode metadata is persisted
by a business service and event notifications are published to
a message queue.
On the cloud side, a centralCoordinatorconsumes event no-
tifications from the message queue, fetches episode metadata
from object storage, and commits monotonically increasing
snapshot versions that define the training data view at each
step. The learner runs as a multi-host SPMD JAX program,
with one process per node driving all local accelerators. Each
process instantiates aDistributed Replay Buffer (DRB) Reader
as its dataset; before each training step, all DRB Readers
synchronize on the same snapshot version via a cross-host
barrier, ensuring the SPMD collective sees a globally consis-

===== PAGE 18 =====
TABLE V:Ablation of value learning design (complete results).Complete results on grocery restocking tasks and long-
horizon tasks. We compare continuous expectile regression and our distributional implicit value learning under offline and
online settings. We report task success rate for each task and the average across all eight tasks. The best result per column is
shown in bold.
Method Grocery Restocking Tasks Long-Horizon Tasks Average
Restocking Correction Freezer Open-Cooler Gongfu Tea Fruit Juice Cocktail Shoebox
Offline Expectile Regression 0.851.00 1.00 1.000.68 0.74 0.71 0.76 0.84
DIVL (ours)1.00 1.000.92 0.95 0.72 0.74 0.83 0.86 0.88
Online Expectile Regression 0.951.000.921.000.76 0.76 0.77 0.84 0.88
DIVL (ours) 1.00 1.000.97 0.980.89 0.90 0.93 0.92 0.95
TABLE VI:Operational Latency.End-to-end latency mea-
sured on the same 8-hour, 16-actor online-RL run as the
End-to-End Reliability subsection above. Absolute values are
sensitive to network configuration and link contention and may
vary across deployments.
Path P50 P99
Episode produced→available to learner 41 s 148 s
Model published→received by actor 38 s 55 s
tent dataset view despite asynchronous edge ingestion. Each
DRB Reader spawns a prefetcher subprocess that downloads
payloads from object storage in parallel; placing one prefetcher
per node is sufficient to saturate the per-node read bandwidth
available from the underlying distributed filesystem in our
deployment.
Model parameters produced by the SPMD collective are
published to a publish-subscribe channel that fans out to
all robot actors, which reload the new policy at episode
boundaries. Across the entire design, the Coordinator is the
only orchestration singleton; both the actor fleet and the learner
scale independently.
We characterize this infrastructure along two operational
axes that are critical for online RL: whether every collected
episode is reliably incorporated into training, and how quickly
new data and updated policies traverse the actor–learner loop.
1) End-to-End Reliability:The system provides at-least-
once end-to-end delivery for every episode produced on the
actor side. (i) Object-storage uploads commit atomically (read-
ers see either the fully-uploaded payload or no object) and are
retried until persisted. (ii) Episode metadata is committed via a
transactional insert in the business service, then announced to a
durable message queue with delivery acknowledgment, so no-
tifications survive coordinator restarts. (iii) Per-node prefetcher
download tasks are requeued on failure with bounded retries;
on snapshot commit, the snapshot data and the version pointer
are updated atomically, so partial failures cannot leave a
snapshot inconsistent. In our profiled 8-hour, 16-actor run
of 1,604 episodes, every episode ingested in steady state
completed the full end-to-end pipeline.
2) Operational Latency:We report the two end-to-end
latencies that govern the tightness of the actor-learner loop:
(i)episode-to-learner: the elapsed time from when an episode
is produced on an actor to when it becomes available for the
learner to sample; and (ii)model-to-actor: the elapsed time
from when the learner publishes a new policy to when the
actor has loaded it for the next rollout. Table VI reports both
on the same 8-hour, 16-actor run as the End-to-End Reliability
subsection above. Both latencies are dominated by object-
storage I/O on the actor-to-cloud link — the episode payload
in one direction, the policy artifact in the other — so absolute
values are sensitive to link bandwidth and contention and may
vary substantially across deployments.